Activity 7-5
Configuring GRUB 2
Before You Begin
You are logged in to the CLI as your student account.

Scenario
Some of your fellow administrators are claiming that their Linux servers aren't booting properly. 
You are assigned to the task of troubleshooting these issues. 
You find that someone has modified the settings in the boot loader because there is no password protection. 
After correcting the boot configuration, you decide to protect GRUB 2 with a password so that only authorized users can modify it.

1- Verify that GRUB 2 is installed.
a- Enter sudo ls -l /boot/efi/EFI/centos
b- Verify that grub.cfg exists in this directory. 
   The presence of this file usually indicates that GRUB 2 
   is successfully installed on the EFI system partition.
c- Enter sudo cat /boot/efi/EFI/centos/grub.cfg and verify that the 
configuration file is populated.


2- Create a password to lock the GRUB 2 configuration with.
a- Enter sudo grub2-mkpasswd-pbkdf2 | sudo tee -a /etc/grub.d/40_custom 
   You're redirecting the output to the custom configuration file. 
   You'll clean up this file shortly.
b- Enter Pa22w0rd as the password.
c- Reenter the same password.
d- Verify that the PBKDF2 password is generated. 
   PBKDF2 uses a cryptographic technique called hashing to protect 
   the password in storage.


3- Adjust the custom GRUB 2 configuration file to require your password.
a- Using sudo, open /etc/grub.d/40_custom in the text editor of your choice.
b- Move the cursor to the line that says "Enter password:" and cut this entire line.
c- Cut the line after it that shows the reenter password prompt.
d- From the "PBKDF2" line, delete the string of text that says 
   "PBKDF2 hash of your password is".
e- On the same line, replace the text you deleted with password_pbkdf2 student01
f- Insert a new line above this that says: set superusers="student01"
g- Save and close the file.


4- Update the main GRUB 2 configuration file to apply your changes.

a- nter sudo grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/efi/EFI/centos/grub.cfg
b- Verify that no errors are returned and that the "done" message is displayed. 
   This indicates that the new GRUB 2 configuration file has 
   been generated successfully.

5- Test the password from the GRUB 2 boot menu.
a- Enter reboot
b- On the GRUB 2 boot menu screen, press Esc to stop the default selection timer.
c- Press e to edit the GRUB 2 configuration.
d- At the Enter username prompt, enter your student account name.

Caution: Input your user name and password very carefully, as you will be unable to edit any mistakes.

e- At the Enter password prompt, enter Pa22w0rd
f- Verify that you can see the GRUB 2 configuration on the screen.
g- Press Esc to exit editing mode.
h- Press Enter to boot back into the default selection.

Log back in as your normal user account.
