Configuring a Firewall
Scenario
Your fellow network administrators have designed a DMZ in which you'll 
need to place several public-facing Linux systems. For the most part, 
these systems function as web servers, and need to allow users to connect 
using the HTTP and HTTPS protocols. The servers are also running a custom 
app that the development team has programmed to accept connections on port 7743. 
So, your job is to tighten the network security of the servers without denying 
access to the necessary services. You'll do this by configuring the firewalld 
service, the default and preferred firewall service on CentOS 7.

Objectives
Completing this activity will help you to use content examples from the 
following syllabus objectives:

3.5 Given a scenario, implement and configure Linux firewalls

4.4 Given a scenario, analyze and troubleshoot application and hardware issues

Test the firewall to see if it's blocking a well-known port
Switch to CentOS 7 (2nd)

Enter systemctl status firewalld

Confirm that the service is currently active and running.

If it isn't, enter sudo systemctl start firewalld

Switch to CentOS 7

Enter sudo /usr/local/bin/nmap -sV server02 -p 80

Verify that port 80/tcp is listed as "filtered", meaning that a firewall is likely blocking traffic on this port.

Get more information about a specific zone
Switch to CentOS 7 (2nd)

Enter firewall-cmd --get-zones to get a list of all default zones.

Enter sudo firewall-cmd --zone=dmz --list-all

Verify that you see several details about this zone, including:

Its target. The target defines the behavior for incoming connections 
(i.e., accept, reject, or drop traffic). The default setting is to reject 
traffic not matching any rules.

What network interfaces this zone is currently applied to.

What services, ports, and protocols are applied to this zone. In this case, SSH is the only service that will accept incoming connections on interfaces that use this zone.

Additional rules for port forwarding, blocking ICMP (ping), and more.

Enter sudo firewall-cmd --get-active-zones

Verify that, currently, your main Ethernet interface is using the public zone.

Set the dmz zone for your primary network interface
Enter ip a and note the device name of your primary Ethernet interface.

This is the interface that you configured in the networking lesson.

Enter sudo firewall-cmd --zone=dmz --change-interface=ens32 --permanent

Verify that the change was a success.

Add services and a custom port to the zone
Enter sudo firewall-cmd --zone=dmz --add-service=http --permanent

Enter sudo firewall-cmd --zone=dmz --add-service=https --permanent

You've just added HTTP and HTTPS as services that will apply to the dmz zone. In other words, traffic bound for these services will be allowed.

Enter sudo firewall-cmd --zone=dmz --add-port=7743/tcp --permanent

This adds a specific port instead of a defined service to the zone.

Verify that your configurations were applied to the zone
Enter sudo firewall-cmd --reload

Enter sudo firewall-cmd --zone=dmz --list-all

Verify the following about this zone:

It is being used by your main network interface.

The SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS services are active in the zone.

TCP port 7743 is also active in the zone.

Test the firewall to see if your configurations are working as intended
Switch to CentOS 7

Enter sudo /usr/local/bin/nmap -sV server02 -p 80

Verify that the port is now "closed," indicating that the firewall permits traffic on this port, but there is not a service currently listening on this port.

Use the same nmap command to scan for port 21 (FTP).

Verify that it is filtered, indicating that the firewall is blocking traffic on this port as expected.

Enter ssh student02@server02

Verify that you are able to make a connection, indicating that SSH traffic is allowed.

Enter exit to close the SSH session.

What is the Linux kernel framework that most firewall services rely on 
to some degree?
Answer:
Netfilter

In an iptables table, what is the function of a chain, and how do chains 
interact with one another?
Answer:
Chains are sets of rules that the table uses to implement firewall 
functionality. Chains enable a progression of how firewall rules are evaluated;
 traffic matching a rule in one chain can be passed to another chain, where 
it is evaluated against a new set of rules.

True or false? IP forwarding is most useful on systems with only one 
network interface.
Answer:
False

What are the differences between a firewall and an intrusion prevention system (IPS)? 
Answer:
Answers may vary, but firewalls typically allow or deny traffic into and 
out of a network based on a set of predefined rules. An IPS evaluates 
traffic that has made it past the firewall and looks for a repeated 
pattern of anomalous or otherwise unwanted behavior. An IPS is therefore 
a second layer of defense. Firewalls can also apply to outgoing traffic, 
whereas IPSs tend to focus on just incoming traffic.
