Install a PDF printer.
-----------------------

Run the following command to see what printers you have installed (there should not be any at this point):

lpstat -s
Next, run the following command to see what types of printer connections you have available to you. To set up the PDF print server, you will need the cups-pdf:/ available:
I've used http since i didn't have cups-pdf:/ available

sudo lpinfo -v
Install a PDF printer to use with CUPS (we will use the -p option to set the name of the printer to CUPS-PDF and the -v option for the connection type):

sudo lpadmin -p CUPS-PDF -v cups-pdf:/
or #sudo lpadmin -p CUPS-PDF -v http:/  if you don't have cups-pdf:/ available

We now need to determine what driver files we can use with this printer. Run the following command to query the CUPS database for files that contain the term "PDF":

lpinfo --make-and-model "PDF" -m
We will want to use the first option as our driver file.

sudo lpadmin -p CUPS-PDF -m "CUPS-PDF.ppd"
Run the following command, and note that we do not have a default printer yet:

lpstat -s
Check on the status of the printer we just installed:

lpc status
We will need to enable this printer so that it can accept jobs, and we should set it as the system default as well:

sudo lpadmin -d CUPS-PDF -E
sudo cupsenable CUPS-PDF
sudo cupsaccept CUPS-PDF
Check its status again:

lpc status

Print a test page.
Run the following command to print a copy of the /etc/passwd file to a PDF file in your home directory:

lpr /etc/passwd
Verify that there is a passwd.pdf file within your home directory:

ls

Modify the printer and work with the print queue.
Configure the printer so that it will not accept new print jobs at this time:

sudo cupsreject CUPS-PDF
Verify the status of the printer (look for the line queuing is disabled):

lpc status
Attempt to print the /etc/group file to your printer:

lpr /etc/group
You should have seen the following when you tried to print the file: lpr: Destination "CUPS-PDF" is not accepting jobs.

Instruct your printer to accept incoming print jobs again:

sudo cupsaccept CUPS-PDF
Verify that your printer can accept jobs again (look for the line queuing is enabled):

lpc status
Configure your printer so that it can accept print jobs in its queue, but it will not print them:

sudo cupsdisable CUPS-PDF
Verify that your printer can accept jobs, but not print them (look for the lines queuing is enabled and printing is disabled):

lpc status
Attempt to print the /etc/group file again:

lpr /etc/group
Running the ls command on your home directory should not show a new PDF file.

Check the printer's queue:

lpq
Note that your print job is still in the queue. Your printer can accept new jobs, but not print them at this time (as noted by the CUPS-PDF is not ready line in your lpq output). Run the following command, and substitute the JobID with the Job ID listed in your lpq command's output:

lprm JobID
Verify that the job has been removed from your queue. Note that your printer is still not ready to print new jobs:

lpq
Re-enable your printer's ability to print new jobs:

sudo cupsenable CUPS-PDF
Verify that your printer is ready:

lpq
